and we are recording welcome to a give
us All Hands call for 3rd of February
2020 we got people on our gallery
we got agenda today we'll be talking
about if you are interested BFS tech
stock and offerings and I think I won't
take much more of your time
and just give a voice to some good thank
you very much little really happy to
join the college today quick background
about me
I joined in figure out on December 2nd
so about two months in as the developer
relations lead so I came from a company
in a three-room called maker down where
I did integration engineering basically
have a background in DevOps and getting
into the distributed and blockchain side
of things
and what I want to talk about today is
what in fira is what we offer with an IP
FS and show some recent examples from a
couple hackathon projects that I use us
how we contribute to open source and
then get into a little bit of the
architecture behind the infra ipfs stack
one I'm gonna take questions at the end
morning again since I've just joined I
may not be able to answer everything to
the technical rigor that we'd like to
share so I'll be taking notes on the
questions you asked and then posting in
our community call a community forum in
depth to answer in depth the answers to
anything that is wants to be learned
about so lemony I have a this series of
I guess websites to go over so if I can
share my screen that'd be ideal
and please interrupt at any time with
questions or anything that you'd like to
know
cool so getting into this is we mainly
work off the HTTP API so obviously this
is the ffs Docs
we offer a subset of the ipfs commands
and so here they are on our Docs here
you can see the different it's mainly
around pinning so basically you can
sign-up for us and then add any ipfs
content that you want and it will for
just add a pending service and as you
can see we don't offer as many I'm good
into it later but we're working on is
huge overhaul of the ipfs offerings and
we're in and add a lot more API
functions available here's the example
I feel festive here at i/o hello this is
the hello world example this is what a
pinning link looks like with our service
and some quick how we contribute to open
source here is what we use internally as
a way to transfer data between ffs notes
and storage it's a command line tool
it's actually it works really well you
can just move data around between
different servers and we use it
internally for our own purposes and move
around another one sometimes seeing
getting data from type you're fast and
how it's working as a little harder so
we built a data dog plug in that house
tracing and you can check it out here so
alright here's a fun thing so just
recently there's a project called get
coins which has different hackathons
we participated one as a sponsor just
recently and I wanted to see what people
could build with our ffs projects and I
can talk about get : more in detail to
if anyone has questions but basically
there was six project submissions two
really cool and thought I want to note
here is one where content creators can
upload anything back two FS and then
sign it with a theorem project called
you port where it ties your basically
control word in theory my address to the
registration and so you actually can
register them in the theorem network
based on these content uploads thought
that was really cool
another one was again on the theorem
there's a open protocol for wallets
called wallet connect and so here is a
popular project where the use-ip of has
to hold data and basic combines it with
your wallet connect persona is the
controller of these fgfs contents
thought that was really cool then so
getting into how in fira has the
architecture so going way back to when
it first came out minimize this so it
started out very very simple this is the
simplest version basically i have a load
balancer the RPC api would hit these
servers and for content retrieval
basically this is hitting the urls you
saw earlier where there's inferior rails
for getting content and then this was
interacting through the command line
with our api and they both hit these
production nodes that are just running
some code base and so this had problems
in the first in 2017 let me launch this
within a year we had over two million
items pinned through the service and we
had a very I guess naive our first
drafted at this and we're running its
problems with still data we weren't I
guess garbage collecting or we're called
banishing any data and so the next
original architecture has a bit more
complexity the designation of something
called special traffic that basically
hit a node before going to another IP FX
load balancer previously just this just
I'm gonna it's called a ipfs spoke
bouncer and this probably took us to
late 2018 this is what the architecture
look like and again it we were scaling
or serving more traffic than this
architecture allowed and so we had a new
version which is which is what I'll
mostly talk about here and so this is
the architecture as of early 2019 and so
basically we have what's called this
ipfs proxy basically a large repo just a
single code base which I can do all
these things and so basically I'm going
through it basically we so IP n s is the
pillars of protocol name service and so
we have what's called an echo nest
tracker and then a pin list tracker so
for for each user we keep a track of
what storage what blocks are being
stored everything about an each specific
user and then what we like to so our
idea a
guy is designed where it's meant to act
like a local note like if you're
familiar with interacting with your
local storage
we like the API it should be very very
similar or identical so we don't have
custom API calls we have pretty much
just everything a subset of what's in
the ipfs Docs themselves if there are
taking I guess input if if you guys
would like to see any custom api's and
custom commands and things like that
we'd be interested to hear about that
but right now it's it looks exactly like
a local node and so I guess going on
yeah we so the go FS that's the one
you're used to the public go up your
best client we work with that and
basically this mono repo we call it
almost like sits on top of it and then
interacts with it and then of course we
use s3 Amazonas s3 for our storage and
so yeah I think that's everything about
this here's the full of what we're
working on eventually allowing in the
next version so everything you see here
is obviously a lot more than the API I
showed in the beginning currently
supports but that's what we're working
towards pretty much all these commands
would be usable in a version I don't
have a release date to announce but
we're working on getting all this into
our API I went through that fairly
quickly
I'm missing
I can't read the chat so if there's any
questions to the child please let me
know I had a good question just about
kind of the the user flow of someone
who's coming through here and wants
inferior to back up their stuff do you
spin up a new co ipfs node for each one
of those how do you kind of segment or
understand the I mean obviously you can
track what content they're pinning but
when you get requests for that data back
are you also tracking how much bandwidth
or other things are related to a
particular user as part of your your
service or it is it just kind of it's on
the pinning side and not on the
retrieval side that you pay attention to
that I
so there's together pinning versus
retrieval we track the users pinning we
I can I can look that up I put that
question down but I don't believe we
track out the retrieval side we pretty
much interfere as a philosophy where a
purpose of not tracking users we just
tracked the minimum amount that's
technically necessary in order to have
our services but we don't track users or
try to identify things or sell data in
any way and so for the tracking side
going back the we used to have a shared
storage solution for like all the users
in one s three basically buckets but
going forward it's going to be unique to
each user that's pinning so every user
will have their own storage and then on
the retrieval side so you said it as was
that answering your question what I'm
hearing is that kind of you you will
have a separate node and separate
storage for each user and then on the
retrieval side you'll redirect that user
to the bit of storage that that's for
them in particular well on the material
side it would come from that storage so
the hash to specific content would
always go to some users bucket I guess
I'm not sure why that retrieval or
pinning would be separate it all come
from yeah I guess my question is like if
we're all pinning the same thing does it
particularly go to my storage when I
want to retrieve it or would it go to
anyone's the there is a deduplication
process to it so the pinning right I
don't believe so I think if there's each
unique object being pinned would be I
guess because you can take them down I
think it'd be unique to each user so
there it would be three pins and your
own private storage or personal storage
I'll have a more in-depth answer I'll
post a link to the community site we
haven't how that Q&A I'm just curious if
if they're in nodes are queryable using
IP LD get so the multi codecs for the
theorem transactions and blocks
are those stored I know I think it
mostly as a plug-in for go ipfs I
actually didn't know about that what is
it called its idea so it's IP LD and a
pleasure a link data that you can
traverse nodes in multi codec for
aetherium transactions and blocks okay
um let's actually the first I'd heard of
that I can find out if we didn't support
it but I don't I don't believe if we use
that anywhere and that would be so on
top of it right now we have the etherium
api right but so this is the unit right
so this would be it just if you have
something an IP LD and you have in
transaction in theorem you can actually
use the multi codec in IPL d2 natively
link a hash bags linked addressing in
IPL d to include that transaction in or
your node and all right I like it so
that as of last year there was support
for it as a plug in for the go ipfs and
I've lost track as far as word where it
is that's on gather that be
that's a reisel and what what support
and Steven Tina can look no there's
currently there's not currently built
into God profess yes there's still
plugin I haven't tried it in a very long
time but yeah basically would treat if
you're in block says nor why building
blocks you build festival in swap from
other piss for my be of us and then
traverse them then last thing I want to
bring up before having more tonight
is we are just a short plug for we are
hiring for a goal inning or Python ipfs
engineer it's on our open rolls and if
you or anyone you know would like to
join us and help us out in building some
really cool
ffs architecture yeah that'd be awesome
and a yeah we're fully remote and so we
have that I'll stop the show there and
answer any questions or we're actually
like so we're in the process of really
making a new ipfs version the diagram I
just showed was from about a year ago
and the new one will look similar but
they'll offer a ton more I guess
functions and the features and so if
there's anything the community would
like to see here would be really useful
that's missing from the current
providers or paying services or we'd
love to hear any sort of ideas or
feedback you have honors I got a
question um you mentioned you mentioned
garbage collection briefly this is
something we're always curious about on
our end how do you guys handle garbage
collection at that scale you do if you
do it all there I mean so there is a so
what we just kind of call it like the
banasur which so are so users can take
down content that they pin the if there
are things so if one if a piece of
information isn't being accessed I think
if the user leaves it
I should don't want to say anything
incorrect so I need to we can write a
some in-depth details about how we
garbage collect and cover things but
yeah so I might I don't have a great
answer for you right now hey that's it
don't you we don't do too much I don't
think we do very in-depth garbage
collection but it's a no we do some so
I'll get the answer for that forget some
other questions
I don't like we got a lot of folks today
so in case you are like raising hands or
something just type in chat cuz I don't
see everyone and I'm trying to like jump
between screens but my screen is very
small I was interested in the mono repo
piece of the diagram that looked as far
as I could tell was like the front end
to a request flow the first thing it was
the thing labeled idea fest proxy mono
repo cuz that was that referring to a
bunch of ipfs like processes that share
a repo or what what was them what which
repo was mono
in that so that's a little bit of a
quirk in our naming just it's a guess it
comes from the term like a large single
repository yeah it's it's basically the
a large code base that handles
everything around I profess it's I think
the name itself leads to you believe
that there's a certain projects position
there's basically a single large code
base that handles everything around I
feel faster it's referring to a git repo
not a ipfs people for example correct
yeah it's a internally it's a private
code base
- Suvir a fair on github yeah
understood I got a question from chat
from Andrew what has been the biggest I
give us pain points for you so far I can
so basically there was some initial pain
points around so we're first like from
the very beginning art the first
architecture we had a single node that
allowed unbounded rights on a public
endpoint and so eventually that would
hit a eventually make that unusable so
there's over two million items in the
permanent storage on that first node and
it basically bled to us trying to do
stricter right right limiting and making
sure that offering better service there
so that was a problem that was an early
a lot of features around that was
initial the eventually I did things like
some things like user authentication
node clustering support for a wider
amount of the writer subset of the ipfs
RPC API and then right now probably the
biggest issue and it's something that
basically since we're relaying through
the command line were relaying different
users requests by I think there's a
there's a issue but I because we so
something the theory I'm added was a way
to act on behalf of another user if
basically a relaying sign transactions
and so we're working on a way to see
relay signed is the if a user wants to
interact with their
best content the pin content boy yeah
interacts with it anyway some of the
some of the things we can do on behalf
of them are limited and so we're working
possibly in a PR or some way to working
with the go back you guys client and
allowing this and things like that where
users could that's like you don't have
signed transactions or sign off on a
certain subset of interactions that we
could take on their behalf I think
that's one of the because right now do
we
there's definitely pain points around
things we would like to do and help
people up like on behalf of users but
technically prevented from doing that
and so that is one thing okay we've got
two and half minutes and there's another
question from aren't you I don't think
they wanted me in storing users private
keys it be basically having these are
signed messages and having the ipfs
Network able to recognize that it might
yeah it's probably some sort of change
to I think that self but uh that's just
something that yeah we'd like to talk to
a protocol labs about and have a
discussion yeah okay I'm I think we've
got the time for last question from
Molly last one
thanks I'll my question is kind of
looking looking at the the stuff that's
coming in the ecosystem was curious if
you guys have have started looking into
our exploring file coin in any way as
kind of a storage solution or kind of
additional offering you might pursue I
can I can ask our head I say our head
developer on a trusted name Mikael and
so and I've talked with them about file
line I'm not sure
how we could and integrate it um um
if there's any are there any final coin
developers on the collar are you
yourself emollient but we would yeah be
happy to talk to ways about how we could
integrate with you yet with file coin
but uh as of right now I'm not sure what
that would look like I know if I'll come
on isn't everything but I I'm not sure
I'm not a current developer on the IP of
my side but something something I know
that's been talked about I think with
Matt and with others is just a way of
being able to have a pinning service
that backs up to file coin for more kind
of distributed backend and then offers
interfaces on night if I side for
pinning content that then ends up stored
by my miners in the file coin Network
and so that was the kind of interesting
space that I wasn't sure whether you
guys have started digging into yet uh
gotcha so nice if I like unused Orage
people can earn file coin by having a
new storage I mean I guess we could act
as a file a coin hoster and turn it that
way that's like a business or yeah we
could offer like a client that people
could use to storage but I guess yeah I
need to learn more but yeah I think that
I'd be a useful service
all right no more questions thank you so
much for coming to activist weekly
sharing updates and insurer and
hopefully we'll see each other again at
some point yeah thank you
doink another chicken I think that's it
for today thank you everyone see you
next week